[^0]
[^0]:    * [This paper was published as 'Williamson on the A Priori and the Analytic', Philosophy and Phenomenological Research, 82 (2011a): 488-97, as a contribution to a symposium on Timothy Williamson's book, The Philosophy of Philosophy.]

point is that doing so yields little insight. The distinction is handy enough for a rough initial description of epistemic phenomena; it is out of place in a deeper theoretical analysis, because it obscures more significant epistemic patterns. We may acknowledge an extensive category of armchair knowledge, in the sense of knowledge in which experience plays no strictly evidential role, while remembering that such knowledge may not fit the stereotype of the $a$ priori, because the contribution of experience was far more than enabling. For example, it should be no surprise if we turn out to have armchair knowledge of truths about the external environment. (2007a: 169)

Williamson's argument for this begins with the observation that the distinction between the a priori and the a posteriori depends on the distinction between sense experience's playing an evidential role in justifying a belief and its playing a merely enabling role. Sense experience plays an evidential role in my knowledge that this shirt is green, but only an enabling role in my knowledge that all green things are colored: it was required only so that I may grasp the concepts green and colored.

However, Williamson claims, in a large number of central cases, sense experience is doing something in between these two things: while not playing a strictly evidential role, it is doing much more than merely enabling the thinker to have the relevant belief. We need to decide, therefore, whether to identify a priori knowledge with knowledge in which sense experience is playing a merely enabling role, or whether to identify it with knowledge in which sense experience is not playing a strictly evidential role, even if that role exceeds a merely enabling one. Unfortunately, no matter how we decide this question, we will get results that are intuitively incorrect: cases that intuitively belong together will be grouped separately and vice versa. Hence, the distinction between the a priori and the a posteriori should be discarded (and replaced by the distinction between armchair and non-armchair knowledge).

If we ask how we know that in a large class of central cases sense experience's contribution is neither strictly evidential nor merely enabling, the answer depends on two further big claims of Williamson's book: first, that knowledge of modal claims is knowledge of counterfactual conditionals; and, second, that the role played by sense experience in our knowledge of counterfactual conditionals is often neither strictly evidential nor merely enabling.
